index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: leanprover-community / mathlib
permalink: index.html
---

The [Lean theorem prover](https://leanprover.github.io) is a proof assistant developed principally
by Leonardo de Moura at Microsoft Research.

There has been a community effort to develop [mathlib](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib), a
library of mathematics formalized in Lean. The library also contains definitions useful for
programming. This project is very active, with many regular contributors and daily activity.

This site hosts an [online JavaScript / WebAssembly version](lean-web-editor/) of the [community fork of Lean](https://github.com/leanprover-community/lean) where you can try out Lean and mathlib in your browser.

Much of the discussion surrounding Lean occurs in a [Zulip chat room](https://leanprover.zulipchat.com).
Since this chatroom is only visible to registered users, we provide an
[openly accessible archive](archive/) of the public discussions. This is useful for quick
reference; for a better browsing interface, and to participate in the discussions, we strongly
suggest joining the chat. Questions from users at all levels of expertise are welcomed.

Commit message:

add link to mathlib paper

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: leanprover-community / mathlib
permalink: index.html
---

The [Lean theorem prover](https://leanprover.github.io) is a proof assistant developed principally
by Leonardo de Moura at Microsoft Research.

There has been a community effort to develop [mathlib](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib), a
library of mathematics formalized in Lean. The library also contains definitions useful for
programming. This project is very active, with many regular contributors and daily activity.

The contents, design, and community organization of mathlib are described in the paper [The Lean mathematical library](papers/mathlib-paper.pdf).

This site hosts an [online JavaScript / WebAssembly version](lean-web-editor/) of the [community fork of Lean](https://github.com/leanprover-community/lean) where you can try out Lean and mathlib in your browser.

Much of the discussion surrounding Lean occurs in a [Zulip chat room](https://leanprover.zulipchat.com).
Since this chatroom is only visible to registered users, we provide an
[openly accessible archive](archive/) of the public discussions. This is useful for quick
reference; for a better browsing interface, and to participate in the discussions, we strongly
suggest joining the chat. Questions from users at all levels of expertise are welcomed.
